deployments/README.md, before:

# Deployments

Here's where you can find all of the deployments that are picked up by `hush-house` to deploy in the `hush-house` cluster using the [`deploy` pipeline](https://hush-house.pivotal.io/teams/main/pipelines/deploy).

Each deployment directory is meant to be a [Helm Chart](https://github.com/helm/helm/blob/master/docs/charts.md), supposed to be continuously deployed in the form of releases.

For more information about each deployment, jump to the corresponding directory's README:

- Concourse installation
  - [hush-house](./with-creds/hush-house/README.md)
  - [worker](./with-creds/worker/README.md)
  - [worker-tracing](./with-creds/worker-tracing/README.md)

- Infrastructure
  - [metrics](./with-creds/metrics/README.md)
  - [sysctl](./without-creds/worker/README.md)
  - [slirunner](./with-creds/slirunner/README.md)

- Samples
  - [bananas](./without-creds/bananas/README.md)


## Directory structure

There are two types of deployments that can be performed through `hush-house`: with and without credentials.

Each deployment type gets its own directory, thus, we have the `with-creds` and `without-creds` directories.

```
.
├── with-creds			# Directory for deployments that require
│   │				# extra credentials
│   │ 
│   ├── Makefile			# Scripting for managing deployments that
│   │					# require credentials.
│   │ 
│   ├── hush-house			# `hush-house` itself - a deployment that require
│   │   │				# a bunch of creds.
│   │   │
│   │   ├── Chart.yaml				# metadata about the chart
│   │   ├── README.md				# information about it
│   │   ├── requirements.lock
│   │   ├── requirements.yaml			# where `hush-house` dependencies get set
│   │   ├── templates				# extra files to template when creating the chart
│   │   │   ├── NOTES.txt			# notes for whoever `helm status` the chart
│   │   │   ├── _helpers.tpl
│   │   │   └── team-authorized-keys-configmap.yaml	# team-specific public keys to authorize
│   │   │
│   │   └── values.yaml			# public values set for this deployment
│   │
│   │
│   └── metrics				# another chart that requires creds ...
│       ├── Chart.yaml
│       ├── ...
│       └── values.yaml
│
│
└── without-creds		# Directory for deployments that require NO
    │ 				# extra credentials.
    │ 
    ├── Makefile			# Scripting for managing the deployments.
    │ 
    └── bananas				# An example deployment without any credentials.
        ├── Chart.yaml
        ├── README.md
        ├── requirements.lock
        ├── requirements.yaml
        └── values.yaml
```


### Without credentials

For deployments that do not require any sensitive information, this type of deployment is the easiest to set up - drop your chart under `./deployments/without-creds` and your good to go - `hush-house` will pick it up and deploy it for you.

For instance, check out `./deployments/without-creds/bananas` for an example of a Concourse chart that has no credentials set.


### With credentials

Such deployment type is intended for those that require having some form of secrets set in a `.values.yaml` file containing information that can't be shown in the public repository.

When `hush-house` goes for performing your deployment, it first gathers the secret `.values.yaml` file from a Kubernetes secret under `hush-house-main` named `((${deployment}-values-b64))`, puts that as a `.values.yaml` file under your deployment directory and then goes on with `helm upgrade`.

For that reason, this directory requires a secret to be set in the k8s cluster in the right namespace prior to the `hush-house` deployment.

Commit message:

upgrade hush-house to v5.8.0
Improve a couple of random spots in the README.

Signed-off-by: Zoe Tian <ztian@pivotal.io>
Co-authored-by: Jamie Klassen <cklassen@pivotal.io>

deployments/README.md, after:

# Deployments

Here's where you can find all of the deployments related to our internal k8s-based Concourse clusters.

Each deployment directory is meant to be a [Helm Chart](https://github.com/helm/helm/blob/master/docs/charts.md), supposed to be continuously deployed in the form of releases. For the time being, though, our deploys are still manual.

For more information about each deployment, jump to the corresponding directory's README:

- Concourse installation
  - [hush-house](./with-creds/hush-house/README.md)
  - [worker](./with-creds/worker/README.md)
  - [worker-tracing](./with-creds/worker-tracing/README.md)
  - [ci](./with-creds/ci/README.md)

- Infrastructure
  - [metrics](./with-creds/metrics/README.md)
  - [sysctl](./without-creds/worker/README.md)
  - [slirunner](./with-creds/slirunner/README.md)

- Samples
  - [bananas](./without-creds/bananas/README.md)


## Directory structure

There are two types of deployments that can be performed through `hush-house`: with and without credentials.

Each deployment type gets its own directory, thus, we have the `with-creds` and `without-creds` directories.

```
.
├── with-creds			# Directory for deployments that require
│   │				# extra credentials
│   │ 
│   ├── Makefile			# Scripting for managing deployments that
│   │					# require credentials.
│   │ 
│   ├── hush-house			# `hush-house` itself - a deployment that require
│   │   │				# a bunch of creds.
│   │   │
│   │   ├── Chart.yaml				# metadata about the chart
│   │   ├── README.md				# information about it
│   │   ├── requirements.lock
│   │   ├── requirements.yaml			# where `hush-house` dependencies get set
│   │   ├── templates				# extra files to template when creating the chart
│   │   │   ├── NOTES.txt			# notes for whoever `helm status` the chart
│   │   │   ├── _helpers.tpl
│   │   │   └── team-authorized-keys-configmap.yaml	# team-specific public keys to authorize
│   │   │
│   │   └── values.yaml			# public values set for this deployment
│   │
│   │
│   └── metrics				# another chart that requires creds ...
│       ├── Chart.yaml
│       ├── ...
│       └── values.yaml
│
│
└── without-creds		# Directory for deployments that require NO
    │ 				# extra credentials.
    │ 
    ├── Makefile			# Scripting for managing the deployments.
    │ 
    └── bananas				# An example deployment without any credentials.
        ├── Chart.yaml
        ├── README.md
        ├── requirements.lock
        ├── requirements.yaml
        └── values.yaml
```


### Without credentials

For deployments that do not require any sensitive information, this type of deployment is the easiest to set up - drop your chart under `./deployments/without-creds` and your good to go - `hush-house` will pick it up and deploy it for you.

For instance, check out `./deployments/without-creds/bananas` for an example of a Concourse chart that has no credentials set.


### With credentials

Such deployment type is intended for those that require having some form of secrets set in a `.values.yaml` file containing information that can't be shown in the public repository.

When `hush-house` goes for performing your deployment, it first gathers the secret `.values.yaml` file from a Kubernetes secret under `hush-house-main` named `((${deployment}-values-b64))`, puts that as a `.values.yaml` file under your deployment directory and then goes on with `helm upgrade`.

For that reason, this directory requires a secret to be set in the k8s cluster in the right namespace prior to the `hush-house` deployment.
